.TH CHATZ 1 "September 25, 2024" "Version 1.1.2" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
chatz \- a CLI tool for sending notifications to Google Chat, Slack, Discord, Telegram etc.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B chatz
.RI [ options ] " message"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B chatz
is a command-line tool that sends notifications to multiple messaging platforms like Google Chat, Slack, and Telegram. It can be integrated into other programs or background jobs to send notifications based on specific events, such as build completion, job status updates, or error notifications.

The application allows flexibility by using a configuration file to store API credentials, webhooks, and chat IDs. This makes it simple to send notifications with minimal configuration.

To use
.B chatz,
configure the relevant services in a `~/.chatz.ini` configuration file located in the user's home directory, or use system environment variables using the `-e` flag.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-p, \-\-profile
Profile to use from the configuration file.
.TP
.B \-o, \-\-output
Print output to stdout.
.TP
.B \-t, \-\-thread-id
Thread ID for replies to a message.
.TP
.B \-e, \-\-from-env
Use system environment variables.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Show the current version of
.B chatz.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Display usage information for
.B chatz.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Send a message using default profile:
.B
chatz "Simple test message"
.TP
Send a message using custom profile:
.B
chatz -p custom "Simple test message"
.TP
Send a reply to a message:
.B
chatz -t <thread_id> "Reply message"
.TP
Send message using system environment variables:
.B
chatz --from-env "Simple test message"
.TP
See output of command:
.B
chatz -o "Sample test message"

.SH CONFIGURATION
The
.B chatz
tool uses a configuration file in INI format to store credentials and webhook URLs for different services. The default configuration file is located at
.I ~/.chatz.ini
but if doesn't exist, then create it.

Here is an example configuration file:

.TP
Configuration for Google.

.nf
[default]
PROVIDER=google
WEB_HOOK_URL=<webhook-url>
.fi

.TP
Configuration for Slack.

.nf
[default]
PROVIDER=slack
TOKEN=<bot-token>
CHANNEL_ID=<channel-id>
.fi

.TP
Configuration for Telegram.

.nf
[default]
PROVIDER=telegram
TOKEN=<bot-token>
CHAT_ID=<chat-id>
.fi

.TP
Configuration for Discord.

.nf
[default]
PROVIDER=discord
WEB_HOOK_URL=<webhook-url>
.fi

.TP
Configuration for Redis.

.nf
[default]
PROVIDER=redis
CONNECTION_URL=<redis-url>
CHANNEL_ID=<redis-channel>
.fi

.TP
Ensure that each service is properly configured with valid tokens and webhook URLs.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR vim (1),
.BR nano (1),
.SH AUTHOR
Written by tech-thinker, as part of the `chatz` project.

